Lab 3 Heads or Tails

Write a program that lets the user guess heads or tails in a coin toss. The program will randomly generate either a 0 or a 1 which represents heads or tails respectively. Define constants to made the code easier to understand.

final int HEADS = 0;
final int TAILS = 1;

The program prompts the user to enter a guess and reports if the user wins or loses. Use Scanner.

Tell the user to enter 0 for heads and 1 for tails. If he enters some other value. Give an error message to that effect.

Display the answer as a sentence. For example, display:

   You WIN.
   Sorry, you lose.
   That is not a valid choice.

Do not display: You win. false That should only be used before a student knows how to display the output correctly using an if statement.

Run your program program multiple times. Be sure you have tested all the possible messages.


Coding Hints: It is best to code a little, test that that works and then code some more. then test again. In this case, here are some of the steps you may want to take

    write the code to generate the random coin toss. Display the number so you can see that you are getting only 0 and 1 in about the same proportion. (test here)
    write the code to get the user input.(test here)
    check if the user entered valid data. (test here)
    check if his guess is correct. (test here)

All during testing continue to display the random number so you can test quessing correctly and guessing incorrectly

/*-----Sample output

Guess the result of the coin toss
What do you guess? Enter 0 for heads and 1 for tails. 1
You win

Guess the result of the coin toss
What do you guess? Enter 0 for heads and 1 for tails. 0
Sorry, you lose

Guess the result of the coin toss
What do you guess? Enter 0 for heads and 1 for tails. 3
That is not a valid choice.

---------------*/


Be sure to put a comment at the top of each program that tells what the program does – not how it does it - and include your name. Use proper indenting, follow naming conventions, leave spaces around operators, and comment your code. Paste your output onto the bottom of the source code inside a comment.

Upload the program with the output and click Finish. See Assignment Submission for complete details.