Homework 4 - Max Input

Write a program that reads an unspecified number of positive integers, keeps track of the maximum value entered and the number of times it is entered, and prints the results. Input will terminate when the user enters 0. Use Scanner to get input.

If the user enters 3 4 2 5 5 5 2 0, the program will find that the 5 is the maximum value and that it was entered 3 times.

Hint: Maintain two variables max and count where max stores the largest number seen so far and count stores its occurrences. Initially, assign the first input number to max and count to 1. Compare each subsequent input number with max. If the number is greater than max, assign it to max and reset the count to 1. If the number is equal to max, increment the count by 1.

Consider what type of loop to use. Note that the user might enter 0 as the first number. You need to handle that case.  (and that  means you will submit at least 2 runs).

Use only one return statement and do not use break. Do not have a return in the middle of the main method

 

/* Sample Run

Enter a positive integer or 0 to terminate: 4
Enter another positive integer or 0 to terminate: 4
Enter another positive integer or 0 to terminate: 4
Enter another positive integer or 0 to terminate: 6
Enter another positive integer or 0 to terminate: 3
Enter another positive integer or 0 to terminate: 2
Enter another positive integer or 0 to terminate: 1
Enter another positive integer or 0 to terminate: 8
Enter another positive integer or 0 to terminate: 5
Enter another positive integer or 0 to terminate: 8
Enter another positive integer or 0 to terminate: 8
Enter another positive integer or 0 to terminate: 7
Enter another positive integer or 0 to terminate: 0

The largest positve integer entered was 8. And it was entered 3 times.

*/

Upload the program with the output and click Finish. See Assignment Submission for details.

I recommend you reread the Style Guide before submitting and make sure you have followed all the rules.